Add native helm v2 docs (#1247)
replicatedhq/replicated-docs: docs/vendor/helm-native-v2-using.md

## Overview

When you include version `kots.io/v1beta2` of the HelmChart custom resource for a Helm chart in your release, KOTS v1.99.0 or later does a Helm install or upgrade of the chart without making any modifications to the chart.

Supporting Helm chart installations with version `kots.io/v1beta2` of the HelmChart custom resource requires additional configuration. You need to update the HelmChart custom resource to rewrite images, inject image pull secrets, and add backup labels for snapshots. Additionally, if you want to support the use of local image registries for air gap or online installations, you must configure the `builder` key.

:::note
Configuring the HelmChart custom resource version `kots.io/v1beta2` requires editing the `values`, `optionalValues`, and `builders` keys. Each of these keys has unique requirements and limitations. For more information about working with these keys, see [values](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2#optional-values), [optionalValues](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2#values), and [builders](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2#builders).

> :::

Author: Added this note here to tell them to go look at the requirements and limitations for each of these fields, rather than writing out "the fields you use under the values key have to match what's in your values file etc".

I repeat these links in a few places throughout

## Supporting Local Image Registries

Local image registries are required for KOTS installations in air gapped environments. Also, by default, users in online environments can optionally push images to a local private registry. For more information about how users configure a local image registry with KOTS, see [Using Private Registries](/enterprise/image-registry-settings).

When installing with version `kots.io/v1beta2` of the HelmChart custom resource, you must provide the necessary values in the `builder` field of the HelmChart custom resource to render the Helm chart with all of the necessary images. This instructs KOTS where to pull the images so that it can push them to the local private registry.

:::note
If you already configured the `builder` key previously to support air gap installations, then you can use the same configuration in your HelmChart custom resource to support the use of local registries for online installations. No additional configuration is required.

> :::

Author: Added this note here to tell them to go look at the requirements and limitations for each of these fields, rather than writing out "the fields you use under the `values` key have to match what's in your values file etc".

I repeat these links in a few places throughout

import ReplicatedHelmMigration from "../partials/helm/_replicated-helm-migration.mdx"

# Configuring the HelmChart Custom Resource

This topic describes how to configure the `apiVersion: kots.io/v1beta2` HelmChart custom resource. It also includes guidance for updating the HelmChart custom resource from `kots.io/v1beta1` to `kots.io/v1beta2`. 

## Overview

> When you include version `kots.io/v1beta2` of the HelmChart custom resource for a Helm chart in your release, KOTS v1.99.0 or later does a Helm install or upgrade of the chart without making any modifications to the chart.

Author: Good call

To support the use of local registries for installations with version `kots.io/v1beta2` of the HelmChart custom resource, you must provide the necessary values in the `builder` field of the HelmChart custom resource to render the Helm chart with all of the necessary images. This instructs KOTS where to pull the images so that it can push them to the local private registry.

:::note
If you already configured the `builder` key previously to support air gap installations, then you can use the same configuration in your HelmChart custom resource to support the use of local registries for online installations. No additional configuration is required.
:::

For more information about how to configure the `builder` key to support the use of local registries, see [`builder`](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2#builder) in _HelmChart v2_.

## Rewriting Image Names

> This section describes how to configure the `values` key of the HelmChart custom resource to rewrite images names in your Helm chart `values.yaml` file. This ensures that KOTS can locate your application images during installation or upgrade. For more information about working with the `values` key, see [values](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2#values) in _HelmChart v2_.

Author: >This ensures that KOTS can locate your application images during installation or upgrade.

I'm not really sure if this is actually the best way to phrase the goal of what we're telling them to do here.

> This section describes how to configure the `values` key of the HelmChart custom resource to rewrite images names in your Helm chart `values.yaml` file. This ensures that KOTS can locate your application images during installation or upgrade. For more information about working with the `values` key, see [values](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2#values) in _HelmChart v2_.

Author: Ended up rewriting much of this content. I'll ping shortly for another review

### Image Registry and Repository

To locate images, KOTS requires:

> * The registry domain. For private images, this is the domain of the Registry proxy service at `proxy.replicated.com`. For public images, this is the domain of your external registry.

Reviewer: I think public images are only relevant for local image registries.

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>apiVersion: kots.io/v1beta2</code></td>
    <td><code>apiVersion: kots.io/v1beta1</code></td>
    <td><code>apiVersion</code> is updated to <code>kots.io/v1beta2</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>releaseName</code></td>
    <td><code>chart.releaseName</code></td>
    <td><code>releaseName</code> is a top level field under <code>spec</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>N/A</td>
    <td><code>helmVersion</code></td>
    <td><code>helmVersion</code> field is removed</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>N/A</td>
    <td><code>helmInstall</code></td>
    <td><code>helmInstall</code> field is removed</td>
  </tr>
</table>

For an example of the HelmChart v2 custom resource, see [HelmChart v2](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2).

### Migrating from Replicated Helm {#migrate-repl-helm}

<ReplicatedHelmMigration/>

To migrate from the Replicated Helm installation method to version `kots.io/v1beta2` of the HelmChart custom resource for an existing installation, you can change the `name` of your Helm chart, package the chart, and add the chart to a new release.

To upgrade from the Replicated Helm installation method to `kots.io/v1beta2`:

> 1. In your Helm chart `Chart.yaml` file, change the `name` of the chart.

Author: This was a guess at a workaround, but not sure this works or if we offer any workaround that would make sense here.

Reviewer: I think the issue with this workaround is that it won't remove the old release, so then you get collisions with the resources themselves (or something like that). Unless @cbodonnell says otherwise, I think we should just say that you can't migrate from Replicated Helm without a fresh install.

Author: Sounds good, I'll remove this. To clarify: does "fresh install" = reinstall the application in a new environment?

Reviewer 2: > To clarify: does "fresh install" = reinstall the application in a new environment?

Correct

import ReplicatedHelmMigration from "../partials/helm/_replicated-helm-migration.mdx"

# Configuring the HelmChart Custom Resource

This topic describes how to configure the Replicated HelmChart custom resource version `kots.io/v1beta2` to support Helm chart installations with KOTS. It also includes guidance for updating the HelmChart custom resource from `kots.io/v1beta1` to `kots.io/v1beta2`. For more information about how KOTS installs Helm charts, see [About Distributing Helm Charts with KOTS](helm-native-about).

## Overview

> Supporting KOTS installations of your Helm chart requires that you configure a HelmChart custom resource. The HelmChart custom resource provides instructions for KOTS about how to deploy your Helm chart. Additionally, the HelmChart custom resource creates a mapping between KOTS and your Helm chart `values.yaml` file, which allows you to dynamically inject values into your Helm chart during installation or upgrade. For more information about the HelmChart custom resource, see [HelmChart v2](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2).

Reviewer 2: small suggestion since we don't change anything in the chart, but instead allow the user-provided values to be set during install/upgrade

```suggestion
Supporting KOTS installations of your Helm chart requires that you configure a HelmChart custom resource. The HelmChart custom resource provides instructions for KOTS about how to deploy your Helm chart. Additionally, the HelmChart custom resource creates a mapping between KOTS and your Helm chart to allow you to dynamically set values during installation or upgrade. For more information about the HelmChart custom resource, see [HelmChart v2](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2).
```

Author: Gotcha, that's a helpful distinction. "Set" values rather than "inject"

To configure the HelmChart custom resource, do the following:

> * Update the `builders` key to allow your users to push images to local private registries. See [Support Local Image Registries](#support-local-image-registries).

Reviewer 2: We should probably move the first bullet (and probably the accompanying section) to the end of the list.  Most vendors will need to do the image re-writing and pull secrets, some will need the backup labels, and only a handful would need to configure the `builders` field for an online install using a private registry

Reviewer 3: I think the builders key s typically used for air gap installations, right? Would it be overkill to add that to that bullet? Or would vendors already grok that?

Reviewer 2: Right, it's more likely a vendor would configure `builder` for an airgap use-case before they would for an online+private registry use-case.

* Update the `values` key to rewrite image names so that images can be located on your private registry or on the user's local private registry. See [Rewrite Image Names](#rewrite-image-names).
* Update the `values` key to inject a KOTS-generated image pull secret that grants proxy access to private images. See [Inject Image Pull Secrets](#inject-image-pull-secrets).

> * Update the `optionalValues` key to add backup labels to your resources to support backup and restore with the snapshots feature. See [Add Backup Labels for Snapshots](#add-backup-labels-for-snapshots).

Reviewer 2: Theoretically, a vendor could use `values` or `optionalValues` for any of these.  Both of them help to dynamically set values when installing/upgrading, but one may be easier than the other depending on the use-case. It might be good to keep it a little more generic here and then show some specific examples later on.

Author: Good call.

The HelmChart custom resource `builders`, `values`, and `optionalValues` keys each have unique requirements and limitations. For more information about working with these keys, see [values](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2#values), [optionalValues](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2#optionalvalues), and [builders](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2#builders) in _HelmChart v2_.

> ## Support Local Image Registries
> 
> Local image registries are required for KOTS installations in air gapped environments. Also, users in online environments can optionally push images to a local private registry. For more information about how users configure a local image registry with KOTS, see [Using Private Registries](/enterprise/image-registry-settings).
> 
> To support the use of local registries for installations with version `kots.io/v1beta2` of the HelmChart custom resource, you must provide the necessary values to render the Helm chart in the `builder` field of the HelmChart custom resource. The `builder` field instructs KOTS where to pull the images so that it can push them to the local private registry.

Reviewer 2: specifically calling out online installs here

```suggestion
## Support Local Image Registries For Online Installations

Local image registries are required for KOTS installations in air gapped environments. Also, users in online environments can optionally push images to a local private registry. For more information about how users configure a local image registry with KOTS, see [Using Private Registries](/enterprise/image-registry-settings).

To support the use of local registries for online installations with version `kots.io/v1beta2` of the HelmChart custom resource, you must provide the necessary values to render the Helm chart  in the `builder` field of the HelmChart custom resource. The `builder` field instructs KOTS where to pull the images so that it can push them to the local private registry.
```

Reviewer 2: It also feels a little more clear why the `builder` field is needed in the `HelmChart` resource page. Similar wording, but a little different:

> You must provide the necessary values in the builder field to render the Helm chart with all of the necessary images so that KOTS knows where to pull the images from to push them into the private registry.

Author: Ended up making these changes manually rather than adding this commit to the batch

**Example**

The following example shows a field in the `values` key of the HelmChart custom resource that is set to the location of the private image at `proxy.replicated.com`: 

```yaml 
# kots.io/v1beta2 HelmChart custom resource
apiVersion: kots.io/v1beta2
kind: HelmChart
metadata:
  name: samplechart
spec:
  ...
  values:
    image:
    # private image accessed through the proxy service
      name: proxy.replicated.com/proxy/my-app/quay.io/my-org/nginx
      tag: v1.0.1  
```

The `spec.values.image.name` field in the HelmChart custom resource corresponds to an `image.name` field in the Helm chart `values.yaml` file, as shown in the example below:

```yaml
# Helm chart values.yaml file

image:
  name: quay.io/my-org/nginx
  tag: v1.0.1
```

During installation, KOTS overwrites the `image.name` field in the Helm chart `values.yaml` file based on the value of the corresponding `spec.values.image.name` field in the HelmChart custom resource. Any templates in the Helm chart that access the `image.name` field are updated to use the location of image on the proxy service, as shown in the example below:

> ```yaml
> apiVersion: v1
> kind: Pod
> metadata:
>   name: nginx
> spec:
>   image:
>   - name: {{ .Values.image.name }}
>     tag: {{ .Values.image.tag }}
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: {{ .Values.image.name }}:{{ .Values.image.tag }}
```
```

> ### Local or External Registries

Reviewer 3: "External Registries" in the heading seems odd to me because the following content only talks about local registries. Also, I believe that the external registries here would be public, like Docker, so maybe add "public" here - in case someone doesn't read the whole topic or finds it via a search.

Author: Jonquil and I caught up over slack about this. Made a handful of updates to address the confusion

If you support the use of local registries, then you can use the Replicated LocalRegistryHost, LocalRegistryNamespace, and HasLocalRegistry template functions to rewrite image names in the HelmChart custom resource to ensure that images can be located during installation or upgrade:

* **LocalRegistryHost**: Returns the host of the local registry that the user configured. For more information, see [LocalRegistryHost](/reference/template-functions-config-context#localregistryhost) in _Config Context_.
* **LocalRegistryNamespace**: Returns the namespace of the local registry that the user configured. For more information, see [LocalRegistryNamespace](/reference/template-functions-config-context#localregistrynamespace) in _Config Context_.
* **HasLocalRegistry**: Returns true if the environment is configured to rewrite images to a local registry. HasLocalRegistry is always true for air gapped installations and optionally true for online installations.
  You can include a ternary operator with the HasLocalRegistry template function so that KOTS uses the host and namespace of the local registry _only_ when a local registry is configured.

>   For example, if the user configured a local registry and used the namespace `example-namespace`, then the template function `'{{repl HasLocalRegistry | ternary LocalRegistryNamespace "my-org" }}/mariadb'` evaluates to `example-namespace/mariadb`. If the user did _not_ configure a local registry, then the template function evaluates to `my-org/maridb`.

Reviewer 3: I like the way this entire section is written, and for this bullet point, it's great that you added an explicit example. Well done!

Author: ty!

```yaml
# kots.io/v1beta2 HelmChart custom resource

apiVersion: kots.io/v1beta2
kind: HelmChart
metadata:
  name: samplechart
spec:
  ...
  values:
    image:
      registry: '{{repl HasLocalRegistry | ternary LocalRegistryHost "proxy.replicated.com" }}'
      repository: '{{repl HasLocalRegistry | ternary LocalRegistryNamespace "proxy/my-app/quay.io/my-org" }}/nginx'
      tag: v1.0.1
```

The `spec.values.image.registry` and `spec.values.image.repository` fields in the HelmChart custom resource correspond to `image.registry` and `image.repository` fields in the Helm chart `values.yaml` file, as shown in the example below:

```yaml
# Helm chart values.yaml file

image:
  registry: quay.io
  repository: my-org/nginx
  tag: v1.0.1
```

During installation, KOTS renders the template functions and overwrites the `image.registry` and `image.repository` fields in your Helm chart `values.yaml` file based on the value of the corresponding fields in the HelmChart custom resource. Any templates in the Helm chart that access the `image.registry` and `image.repository` fields are updated to use the appropriate value, as shown in the example below:

> ```yaml
> apiVersion: v1
> kind: Pod
> metadata:
>   name: nginx
> spec:
>   image:
>   - registry: {{ .Values.image.registry }}
>     repository: {{ .Values.image.repository }}
>     tag: {{ .Values.image.tag }}
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
spec:
  containers:
  - name: 
    image: {{ .Values.image.registry }}/{{ .Values.image.repository }}:{{ .Values.image.tag }}
```
```

## Inject Image Pull Secrets

Kubernetes requires a Secret of type `kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson` to authenticate with a registry and pull a private image. When you reference a private image in a Pod definition, you also provide the name of the Secret in a `imagePullSecrets` key in the Pod definition. For more information, see [Specifying imagePullSecrets on a Pod](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/containers/images/#specifying-imagepullsecrets-on-a-pod) in the Kubernetes documentation.

> During installation, KOTS creates a `kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson` type Secret that is based on the customer license. This pull secret grants access to the private image on the Replicated proxy service. You must provide the name of this KOTS-generated pull secret in any Pod definitions that reference the private image.

Reviewer 2: If a local registry is configured, the pull secret will contain those credentials

Author: added!

> You can inject the name of this pull secret into a field in the HelmChart custom resource using the Replicated ImagePullSecretName template function. During installation, KOTS overwrites the value of the corresponding field in your Helm chart `values.yaml` file with the rendered value of the ImagePullSecretName template function. 

Reviewer 2: Same comment as [above](https://github.com/replicatedhq/replicated-docs/pull/1247/files#r1260391795) regarding the `values.yaml`. KOTS is just setting the value to use for the installation. If one isn't provided, then Helm falls back to what is in `values.yaml`.

Author: updated this language throughout to say "set" instead of "inject"

**Example**

The following example shows a `spec.values.image.pullSecrets` field in the HelmChart custom resource that uses the ImagePullSecretName template function to inject the name of the KOTS-generated pull secret:

```yaml
# kots.io/v1beta2 HelmChart custom resource

apiVersion: kots.io/v1beta2
kind: HelmChart
metadata:
  name: samplechart
spec:
  values:
    image:
      registry: '{{repl HasLocalRegistry | ternary LocalRegistryHost "proxy.replicated.com" }}'
      repository: '{{repl HasLocalRegistry | ternary LocalRegistryNamespace "proxy/my-app/ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/my-org" }}/api'
      pullSecrets:
      - '{{repl ImagePullSecretName }}'
```

The `spec.values.image.pullSecrets` field in the HelmChart custom resource corresponds to a `image.pullSecrets` field in the Helm chart `values.yaml` file, as shown in the example below:

```yaml
# Helm chart values.yaml file

image:
  registry: ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com
  repository: my-org/api/nginx

>   pullSecrets: nginxsecret

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  pullSecret: nginxsecret
```

```

During installation, KOTS overwrites the `image.pullSecrets` field in the Helm chart `values.yaml` file based on the rendered value of the corresponding `spec.values.image.pullSecrets` field in the HelmChart custom resource. Any templates in the Helm chart that access the `image.pullSecrets` field are updated to use the name of the KOTS-generated pull secret, as shown in the example below:

> ```yaml
> apiVersion: v1
> kind: Pod
> metadata:
>   name: nginx
> spec:
>   containers:
>   - name: {{ .Values.image.registry }}
>     image: {{ .Values.image.repository }}
>   imagePullSecrets:
>   - name: {{ .Values.image.pullSecrets }}  
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: {{ .Values.image.registry }}/{{ .Values.image.repository }}
  imagePullSecrets:
  - name: {{ .Values.image.pullSecret }}  
```
```

## Add Backup Labels for Snapshots

The Replicated snapshots feature requires the following labels on all resources in your Helm chart that you want to be included in the backup:
* `kots.io/backup: velero`

> * `kots.io/APP_SLUG`, where `APP_SLUG` is the slug of your Replicated application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `kots.io/app-slug: APP_SLUG`, where `APP_SLUG` is the slug of your Replicated application.
```

For more information about snapshots, see [Understanding Backup and Restore](snapshots-overview).

> To support backup and restore with snapshots, add the `kots.io/backup: velero` and `kots.io/APP_SLUG` labels to fields under the HelmChart custom resource `optionalValues` key. Add a `when` statement that evaluates to true only when the customer license has the `isSnapshotSupported` entitlement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To support backup and restore with snapshots, add the `kots.io/backup: velero` and `kots.io/app-slug: APP_SLUG` labels to fields under the HelmChart custom resource `optionalValues` key. Add a `when` statement that evaluates to true only when the customer license has the `isSnapshotSupported` entitlement.
```

:::note
Migrating from the Replicated Helm installation method (`apiVersion: kots.io/v1beta1` and `useHelmInstall: false`) for an existing chart in an existing installation is not supported. For more information, see [Migrating from Replicated Helm](#migrating-from-replicated-helm) below.
:::

The `kots.io/v1beta2` HelmChart custom resource has the following differences from `kots.io/v1beta1`:

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>HelmChart v1beta2</th>
    <th>HelmChart v1beta1</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>apiVersion: kots.io/v1beta2</code></td>
    <td><code>apiVersion: kots.io/v1beta1</code></td>
    <td><code>apiVersion</code> is updated to <code>kots.io/v1beta2</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>releaseName</code></td>
    <td><code>chart.releaseName</code></td>
    <td><code>releaseName</code> is a top level field under <code>spec</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>N/A</td>
    <td><code>helmVersion</code></td>
    <td><code>helmVersion</code> field is removed</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>N/A</td>

>     <td><code>helmInstall</code></td>
>     <td><code>helmInstall</code> field is removed</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <td><code>useHelmInstall</code></td>
    <td><code>useHelmInstall</code> field is removed</td>
```

# Configuring the HelmChart Custom Resource

This topic describes how to configure the Replicated HelmChart custom resource version `kots.io/v1beta2` to support Helm chart installations with KOTS. It also includes guidance for updating the HelmChart custom resource from `kots.io/v1beta1` to `kots.io/v1beta2`. For more information about how KOTS installs Helm charts, see [About Distributing Helm Charts with KOTS](helm-native-about).

## Overview

Supporting KOTS installations of your Helm chart requires that you configure a HelmChart custom resource. The HelmChart custom resource provides instructions for KOTS about how to deploy your Helm chart. Additionally, the HelmChart custom resource creates a mapping between KOTS and your Helm chart to allow you to dynamically set values during installation or upgrade. For more information about the HelmChart custom resource, see [HelmChart v2](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2).

To configure the HelmChart custom resource, do the following:
* Rewrite image names so that images can be located on your private registry or on the user's local private registry. See [Rewrite Image Names](#rewrite-image-names).

> * Inject a KOTS-generated image pull secret that grants proxy access to private images. See [Inject Image Pull Secrets](#inject-image-pull-secrets).

Reviewer 2: yup, the creds would be `license-id:license-id`, which gives pull access to both proxy and registry

> * Inject a KOTS-generated image pull secret that grants proxy access to private images. See [Inject Image Pull Secrets](#inject-image-pull-secrets).

Reviewer: @paigecalvert I don't think we mention Replicated registry at all on this page. We should make it clear that you have to inject this secret whether you're proxying private images or pulling images from the Replicated registry.

For more information:
* If you use a private image registry and you do _not_ support users pushing to local registries, see [External Private Registries Only](#external-private-registries-only). 
* If you need to support users that push to local registries, such as users in air gap environments, see [Local Registries](#local-registries).

### External Private Registries Only

If you use private images with your application, then your images must be accessed through the Replicated proxy service at `proxy.replicated.com/proxy/APP_SLUG/EXTERNAL_REGISTRY_IMAGE_URL`, where `APP_SLUG` is the slug of your Replicated application and `EXTERNAL_REGISTRY_IMAGE_URL` is the path to the private image on your external registry. For example, `proxy.replicated.com/proxy/my-app/quay.io/my-org/api`.

For more information about how KOTS provides access to private images through proxy service, see [About Using an External Registry](private-images-about).

> If you use a private registry and you do _not_ support the use of local registries for your users, then you can add a static value in the HelmChart custom resource with the location of your image on the proxy service domain. This allows KOTS to rewrite image names in your Helm chart during installation or upgrade so that private images can be accessed through the proxy service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use a private registry and you do _not_ support the use of local registries for your users, then you can add a static value in the HelmChart custom resource with the location of your private image on the proxy service domain. This allows KOTS to rewrite image names in your Helm chart during installation or upgrade so that private images can be accessed through the proxy service.
```

  For example, if the user configured a local registry and used the namespace `example-namespace`, then the template function `'{{repl HasLocalRegistry | ternary LocalRegistryNamespace "my-org" }}/mariadb'` evaluates to `example-namespace/mariadb`. If the user did _not_ configure a local registry, then the template function evaluates to `my-org/maridb`.

  For more information, see [HasLocalRegistry](/reference/template-functions-config-context#haslocalregistry) in _Config Context_.

**Example**

The following example shows a field in the `values` key that rewrites the registry domain to `proxy.replicated.com` unless the user configured a local registry. Similarly, it shows a field that rewrites the image repository to the path of the image on `proxy.replicated.com` or on the user's local registry:

```yaml
# kots.io/v1beta2 HelmChart custom resource

apiVersion: kots.io/v1beta2
kind: HelmChart
metadata:
  name: samplechart
spec:
  ...
  values:
    image:
      registry: '{{repl HasLocalRegistry | ternary LocalRegistryHost "proxy.replicated.com" }}'

>       repository: '{{repl HasLocalRegistry | ternary LocalRegistryNamespace "proxy/my-app/quay.io/my-org" }}/nginx'

Reviewer: @cbodonnell Do you think we need to separate this out and have examples for public and private images? Because for local registries, you have to rewrite all images, but it should only use proxy.replicated.com if it's a private image. Otherwise it should just use the public image name.

Reviewer 2: i like that idea to make the examples cover all use-cases.  here's the public image example from the original doc

```
      # public image example
      image:
        registry: '{{repl HasLocalRegistry | ternary LocalRegistryHost "docker.io" }}'
        repository: '{{repl HasLocalRegistry | ternary LocalRegistryNamespace "bitnami" }}/mariadb'
```

Author: Add a public image example using this sample

# Helm chart values.yaml file

image:
  registry: quay.io
  repository: my-org/nginx
  tag: v1.0.1
```

During installation, KOTS renders the template functions and sets the `image.registry` and `image.repository` fields in your Helm chart `values.yaml` file based on the value of the corresponding fields in the HelmChart custom resource. Any templates in the Helm chart that access the `image.registry` and `image.repository` fields are updated to use the appropriate value, as shown in the example below:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
spec:
  containers:
  - name: 
    image: {{ .Values.image.registry }}/{{ .Values.image.repository }}:{{ .Values.image.tag }}
```

## Inject Image Pull Secrets

Kubernetes requires a Secret of type `kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson` to authenticate with a registry and pull a private image. When you reference a private image in a Pod definition, you also provide the name of the Secret in a `imagePullSecrets` key in the Pod definition. For more information, see [Specifying imagePullSecrets on a Pod](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/containers/images/#specifying-imagepullsecrets-on-a-pod) in the Kubernetes documentation.

> During installation, KOTS creates a `kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson` type Secret that is based on the customer license. This pull secret grants access to the private image on the Replicated proxy service. Additionally, if the user configured a local image registry, then the pull secret contains the credentials for the local registry. You must provide the name of this KOTS-generated pull secret in any Pod definitions that reference the private image.

Reviewer 2: yeah proxy and replicated registry need those credentials

You can inject the name of this pull secret into a field in the HelmChart custom resource using the Replicated ImagePullSecretName template function. During installation, KOTS sets the value of the corresponding field in your Helm chart `values.yaml` file with the rendered value of the ImagePullSecretName template function. 

**Example**

The following example shows a `spec.values.image.pullSecrets` field in the HelmChart custom resource that uses the ImagePullSecretName template function to inject the name of the KOTS-generated pull secret:

```yaml
# kots.io/v1beta2 HelmChart custom resource

apiVersion: kots.io/v1beta2
kind: HelmChart
metadata:
  name: samplechart
spec:
  values:
    image:
      registry: '{{repl HasLocalRegistry | ternary LocalRegistryHost "proxy.replicated.com" }}'
      repository: '{{repl HasLocalRegistry | ternary LocalRegistryNamespace "proxy/my-app/ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/my-org" }}/api'
      pullSecrets:

>       - '{{repl ImagePullSecretName }}'

Reviewer 2: my mistake here
```suggestion
      - name: '{{repl ImagePullSecretName }}'
```

```

The `spec.values.image.pullSecrets` field in the HelmChart custom resource corresponds to a `image.pullSecrets` field in the Helm chart `values.yaml` file, as shown in the example below:

```yaml
# Helm chart values.yaml file

image:
  registry: ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com
  repository: my-org/api/nginx
  pullSecrets:
  - name: my-org-secret
```

> During installation, KOTS sets the `image.pullSecrets` field in the Helm chart `values.yaml` file based on the rendered value of the corresponding `spec.values.image.pullSecrets` field in the HelmChart custom resource. Any templates in the Helm chart that access the `image.pullSecrets` field are updated to use the name of the KOTS-generated pull secret, as shown in the example below:

Reviewer: Technically `image.pullSecrets` is an array. I think we're just adding this secret to that array, so if other secrets are set there, I don't think they're overwritten. Is that true, @cbodonnell?

Reviewer 2: right, so if it was:
```
spec:
  values:
    image:
      pullSecrets:
        - name: hard-coded-secret
        - name: {{repl ImagePullSecretName }}
```
then only the second one would change.  so maybe the wording can be more specific to how the _pull secret name_ is what get's rendered

Author: Updated to clarify that it's rendering the pull secret name and then adding the name to the array

To support backup and restore with snapshots, add the `kots.io/backup: velero` and `kots.io/app-slug: APP_SLUG` labels to fields under the HelmChart custom resource `optionalValues` key. Add a `when` statement that evaluates to true only when the customer license has the `isSnapshotSupported` entitlement.

The fields that you create under the `optionalValues` key must map to fields in your Helm chart `values.yaml` file. For more information about working with the `optionalValues` key, see [optionalValues](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2#optionalvalues) in _HelmChart v2_.

**Example**

The following example shows how to add backup labels for snapshots in the `optionalValues` key of the HelmChart custom resource:

```yaml
# kots.io/v1beta2 HelmChart custom resource

apiVersion: kots.io/v1beta2
kind: HelmChart
metadata:
  name: samplechart
spec:
  ...
  optionalValues:
  # add backup labels only if the license supports snapshots
  - when: "repl{{ LicenseFieldValue `isSnapshotSupported` }}"
    recursiveMerge: true
    values:
      mariadb:
        commonLabels:
          kots.io/backup: velero

>           kots.io/app-slug: my-app-slug

Reviewer: I do think the template function makes this easier to copy and paste.
```suggestion
          kots.io/app-slug: {{repl LicenseFieldValue "appSlug" }}
```

Reviewer 2: we should use `repl{{` instead so it's interpreted as a string. tested it and got a parse error when it was the other way around
```suggestion
          kots.io/app-slug: repl{{LicenseFieldValue "appSlug" }}
```

        podLabels:
          kots.io/backup: velero

>           kots.io/app-slug: my-app-slug

Reviewer 2: same here
```suggestion
          kots.io/app-slug: repl{{LicenseFieldValue "appSlug" }}
```

## Overview

Supporting KOTS installations of your Helm chart requires that you configure a HelmChart custom resource. The HelmChart custom resource provides instructions for KOTS about how to deploy your Helm chart. Additionally, the HelmChart custom resource creates a mapping between KOTS and your Helm chart to allow you to dynamically set values during installation or upgrade. For more information about the HelmChart custom resource, see [HelmChart v2](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2).

To configure the HelmChart custom resource, do the following:
* Rewrite image names so that images can be located on your private registry or on the user's local private registry. See [Rewrite Image Names](#rewrite-image-names).
* Inject a KOTS-generated image pull secret that grants proxy access to private images. See [Inject Image Pull Secrets](#inject-image-pull-secrets).
* Add backup labels to your resources to support backup and restore with the snapshots feature. See [Add Backup Labels for Snapshots](#add-backup-labels-for-snapshots).

> * Configure the `builders` key to allow your users to push images to local private registries. The `builders` key is required to support air gap installations. See [Support Local Image Registries](#support-local-image-registries).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Configure the `builder` key to allow your users to push images to local private registries. The `builder` key is required to support air gap installations. See [Support Local Image Registries](#support-local-image-registries).
```

> The HelmChart custom resource `builders`, `values`, and `optionalValues` keys each have unique requirements and limitations. For more information about working with these keys, see [values](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2#values), [optionalValues](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2#optionalvalues), and [builders](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2#builders) in _HelmChart v2_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The HelmChart custom resource `builder`, `values`, and `optionalValues` keys each have unique requirements and limitations. For more information about working with these keys, see [values](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2#values), [optionalValues](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2#optionalvalues), and [builders](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2#builders) in _HelmChart v2_.
```

> ## Rewrite Image Names

Reviewer 3: Oh, this is much better. Thanks!

**Example**

The following example shows a `spec.values.image.pullSecrets` field in the HelmChart custom resource that uses the ImagePullSecretName template function to inject the name of the KOTS-generated pull secret:

```yaml
# kots.io/v1beta2 HelmChart custom resource

apiVersion: kots.io/v1beta2
kind: HelmChart
metadata:
  name: samplechart
spec:
  values:
    image:
      registry: '{{repl HasLocalRegistry | ternary LocalRegistryHost "proxy.replicated.com" }}'
      repository: '{{repl HasLocalRegistry | ternary LocalRegistryNamespace "proxy/my-app/ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/my-org" }}/api'
      pullSecrets:
      - '{{repl ImagePullSecretName }}'
```

The `spec.values.image.pullSecrets` field in the HelmChart custom resource corresponds to a `image.pullSecrets` field in the Helm chart `values.yaml` file, as shown in the example below:

```yaml
# Helm chart values.yaml file

> image:
>   registry: ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com
>   repository: my-org/api/nginx
>   pullSecret: nginxsecret

Reviewer 2: i didn't give the best suggestion last time.  this field would normally allow one or more pull secrets to be set.  i'll update the example usage below too
```suggestion
image:
  registry: ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com
  repository: my-org/api/nginx
  pullSecrets:
  - name: my-org-secret
```

```

During installation, KOTS sets the `image.pullSecrets` field in the Helm chart `values.yaml` file based on the rendered value of the corresponding `spec.values.image.pullSecrets` field in the HelmChart custom resource. Any templates in the Helm chart that access the `image.pullSecrets` field are updated to use the name of the KOTS-generated pull secret, as shown in the example below:

```yaml

> apiVersion: v1
> kind: Pod
> metadata:
>   name: nginx
> spec:
>   containers:
>   - name: nginx
>     image: {{ .Values.image.registry }}/{{ .Values.image.repository }}
>   imagePullSecrets:
>   - name: {{ .Values.image.pullSecret }}  

Reviewer 2: this example renders `imagePullSecrets` only if the array contains values.  if it does, it renders the values with the proper indentation
```suggestion
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: {{ .Values.image.registry }}/{{ .Values.image.repository }}
  {{- with .Values.image.pullSecrets }}
  imagePullSecrets:
  {{- toYaml . | nindent 2 }}
  {{- end }}
```

:::
## Migrate from v1beta1 to v1beta2 {#migrating}

The HelmChart custom resource `kots.io/v1beta1` is deprecated and is not recommended for new installations. This section includes considerations for migrating from version `kots.io/v1beta1` of the HelmChart resource to version `kots.io/v1beta2`.

### Support Both Versions {#support-both}

The HelmChart custom resource version `kots.io/v1beta2` is available only for installations that use KOTS v1.99.0 or later. To support existing users that have not yet upgraded to KOTS v1.99.0 or later, Replicated recommends that you include both a `kots.io/v1beta2` and a `kots.io/v1beta1` HelmChart custom resource for each Helm chart in your release. This allows you to support both installation methods from the same release.

When you include both a `kots.io/v1beta2` and `kots.io/v1beta1` HelmChart custom resource in a single release for the same Helm chart, installations with KOTS v1.98.0 or earlier use `kots.io/v1beta1`. Installations with KOTS v1.99.0 or later use `kots.io/v1beta2`.

### Update an Existing HelmChart Custom Resource

> After all your users install KOTS v1.99.0 or later, you can stop supporting installations with version `kots.io/v1beta1` of the HelmChart custom resource. To migrate from `kots.io/v1beta1` to `kots.io/v1beta2`, update the fields in the existing HelmChart custom resources in your releases.

Reviewer 2: Should we be more specific about what updates are needed when migrating?  Basically the vendor just needs to make sure they do the things we described above wrt image re-writes, pull secrets, snapshots, etc.

Author: Yeah that's a good call...after looking at it again, I decided to reformat this section a little bit so that it's not so focused on "Migrate from v1 to v2". People could probably look at that heading and think that's all they have to do to migrate, as you said

* Add backup labels to your resources to support backup and restore with the snapshots feature. See [Add Backup Labels for Snapshots](#add-backup-labels-for-snapshots).
* Configure the `builder` key to allow your users to push images to local private registries. The `builder` key is required to support air gap installations. See [Support Local Image Registries](#support-local-image-registries).

The HelmChart custom resource `builder`, `values`, and `optionalValues` keys each have unique requirements and limitations. For more information about working with these keys, see [values](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2#values), [optionalValues](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2#optionalvalues), and [builders](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2#builders) in _HelmChart v2_.

## Rewrite Image Names

To locate images for your application in a registry, Kubernetes must have the image name and the domain of the registry. For example, you might have an image with the name `example/imagename` on a registry with the domain `example.registry.com`. For more information, see [Images](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/containers/images/) in the Kubernetes documentation.

> During installation or upgrade with KOTS, your private images are accessed either through the Replicated proxy service at the domain `proxy.replicated.com` or in the Replicated private registry at `replicated.registry.com`. Additionally, KOTS allows users to configure local registries to push images. If you use a private registry or if your users push to a local private registry, then you must configure the HelmChart custom resource to dynamically update image names in your Helm chart. This allows Kubernetes to locate images on either the proxy service or on a user-configured local registry.

Reviewer: Oh miscommunication. KOTS only has to rewrite external private images, not images in the Replicated registry.

The Replicated registry comment was only about injecting pull secrets.
```suggestion
During installation or upgrade with KOTS, private images stored in an external private registry are accessed through the Replicated proxy service at the domain `proxy.replicated.com`. Additionally, KOTS allows users to configure local registries to push images. If you use an external private registry or if your users push to a local private registry, then you must configure the HelmChart custom resource to dynamically update image names in your Helm chart. This allows Kubernetes to locate images on either the proxy service or on a user-configured local registry.
```

Author: Ah gotcha, thank you

For more information:
* If you use a private image registry and you do _not_ support users pushing to local registries, see [External Private Registries or Replicated Registry](#external). 
* If you need to support users that push to local registries, such as users in air gap environments, see [Local Registries](#local-registries).

> ### External Private Registries or Replicated Registry {#external}

Reviewer: I actually don't think we need this here. This section is about rewriting images, and we don't have to rewrite Replicated registry images.
```suggestion
### External Private Registries {#external}
```

The fields that you create under the `optionalValues` key must map to fields in your Helm chart `values.yaml` file. For more information about working with the `optionalValues` key, see [optionalValues](/reference/custom-resource-helmchart-v2#optionalvalues) in _HelmChart v2_.

**Example**

The following example shows how to add backup labels for snapshots in the `optionalValues` key of the HelmChart custom resource:

```yaml
# kots.io/v1beta2 HelmChart custom resource

apiVersion: kots.io/v1beta2
kind: HelmChart
metadata:
  name: samplechart
spec:
  ...
  optionalValues:
  # add backup labels only if the license supports snapshots
  - when: "repl{{ LicenseFieldValue `isSnapshotSupported` }}"
    recursiveMerge: true
    values:
      mariadb:
        commonLabels:
          kots.io/backup: velero
          kots.io/app-slug: repl{{LicenseFieldValue "appSlug" }}
        podLabels:
          kots.io/backup: velero

>           kots.io/app-slug: repl{{LicenseFieldValue "appSlug" }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          kots.io/app-slug: repl{{ LicenseFieldValue "appSlug" }}
        podLabels:
          kots.io/backup: velero
          kots.io/app-slug: repl{{ LicenseFieldValue "appSlug" }}
```
